We are starting to look at how to improve
the individual Core Web Vital Matrix.
And so let's start with
the first contentful paint.
As a quick reminder, the first contentful
paint is the time from the page start
until the user sees an indication that
the page is going to load for them.
Another way of saying that
is we need to respond quick.
So how do we do that?
How do we make sure that
we're responding quick?
Well, let's conceptually think
about our website again.
So what all websites inherently do
is you have a set of servers or
hosts or virtual machines or
whatever it is.
And you need to have a set of documents
that you need to deliver across
the network to your users.
And so there's a few different parts of
this that can all contribute to what is
slowing down first contentful paint.
Your servers need to be quick.
You need to deliver small documents that
can be sent efficiently, and the amount
of hops through that magical cloud
network needs to be as short as possible.
And so
you need to focus on these three things to
improve your first contentful paint.
So there's different tactics for
each of these three.
So your servers,
how do we make sure your server is quick?
Well, we need to make sure that
your server is sized correctly for
what you're doing.
This is the first thing that we need to do
in order to improve it is focusing on your
servers.
Now the specific changes to your servers
is going to be very dependent on what
you're doing and
what technology stack you're doing.
But essentially,
you need to focus on three things.
First, sizing the hardware or
the virtual machine or your network or
whatever your constraining
factors are correctly.
You need to make sure that you have enough
overhead in the machines that you've
selected to deliver
the content that you need.
Second, you should minimize the processing
you need to do in order to fulfill
the request.
As in, if you just need to serve
an index.html page to your users, you
probably shouldn't be making calls to your
database in order to fulfil that request.
Unless there's something especially
interesting that you need to do with that.
And third, the bandwidth, the bandwidth
you have to your servers needs to
be big enough in order to fulfil all the
requests that you have coming in at once.
How do we make sure we're doing as small
thing as possible with out documents?
Well, the two major things that we can
speak here is the size of our content and
how we compress it.
So content size, how do you deliver
a small of payload as you can and
still get the effectiveness that you need?
So this is gonna be again,
dependent on your application, but
if you're delivering an HTML page or
a JavaScript file or an image,
there's certain upper limits
on how much you should send.
For an HTML document, probably if
you're sending anything more than 80 or
100k in terms of total size,
that is just way too much,
you're putting too much on
a page at the same time.
An image might be a meg at
its upper limit, right?
For how big an image
should be on the Internet.
And if you're sending out
bigger things than that,
then you're just sending too much
content to be consumed over this medium.
Compression, so even if you're
sending a 100k HTML document,
how you compress that document over
the wire can greatly improve that speed.
Most commonly on just about any platform,
you can turn on Gzip compression.
And for newer web platforms,
you can turn on more advanced
compression such as Brotli.
Now this is going to be very specific
to your technology stack and so
I'm not gonna be able to go specifically
into what compression you should use.
But compressing your documents is gonna be
able to greatly reduce the number of bytes
that you're gonna push over the wire and
send fewer and do fewer things.
The third part that is under our
control is how we transmit our data.
So, if we take a look at that cloud and
zoom in on it a little bit,
there's actually more than
one thing happening here.
There's where our servers are in
your data center or in Amazon or
in Microsoft or in Digital Ocean or
wherever you host your content.
And there's a series of network
hops in their own infrastructure.
And you largely don't
have control of that.
On the other side, you have your users,
they're connected to their own ISP or
their own wireless network or whatever.
And that has a series of
hops to manage that network.
Between them is what's
connecting those two networks.
And these are all
the infrastructure of the Internet.
And this time is something
that we can control.
We can control based on where
we place our servers and
how far away they are from
our actual users.
Now this time is actually
more interesting and
more relevant than you might think it is.
For example, the minimum time that can be
if your servers are on the East Coast of
the United States, and your current user
is on the west coast of the United States,
is that's going to be 200 milliseconds?
There's just no way to get it any faster
than that if you have to communicate that
difference.
This is obviously due to
the speed of light and
how fast network hardware
can switch packets.
So there's a ton of performance benefits
to be gained by reducing this distance.
So how do you reduce this distance?
Well, the most effective,
easiest way to do it is to use CDNs.
A content distribution network service
is a way of taking the content,
those files that your
servers are spitting out.
And rather than sending them through
the entire series of tubes that is
the Internet every time.
What if we just had a copy of them
right at the edge of every one of our
users networks?
So that they can just grab it right
from there without having to get across
the Internet.
And that's what most CDNs are doing.
CDN like CloudFlare or Akamai or
maxCDN, or there's dozens and
dozens and dozens out there
if you look up CDN servers.
And most of these, what they will
do is when a user makes a request,
the CDN will pick it up.
They'll call your stuff,
if they don't already have a copy.
And they will just cache
a copy of your response and
serve it out to every single
user who might ask for it.
And this is dramatically faster
than actually doing the real work.
Essentially, we're doing fewer
things by not processing each
request across the entire network.
So this is largely about putting
infrastructure things in place.
Which is very, very hard to demo, and
largely dependent on your infrastructure.
But our example repository has a way for
us to put server upgrades in place.
So let's do that together and
simulate what impact or performance doing
a server and infrastructure update
would have on request metrics.
Okay, I'm gonna flip back
over here to our code.
And in order to do this,
we're gonna need to pop open package.json,
this is something that I made
configurable in this library.
There's a couple of
options here under config.
And these are some specific keys that
we're looking at that my simulated server
is going to honor.
Now because setting up a CDN and setting
up server compression is gonna vary so
much depending on what
platform you're using.
We're not gonna cover the details of that.
We're just going to turn it on for
this Express server that
we're operating right now.
So I'm gonna change the server delay from
the 200 milliseconds it's representing
now as though my server was on the East
Coast and my user was on the West Coast.
To something more realistic
of what I would see on a CD
end website of a 50 milliseconds server.
This is essentially a simulating that
we're putting our infrastructure much
closer to our users.
And I'm gonna change
server compress to true.
So it's basically just telling my
server we're gonna attach very simple
compression.
We are gonna Gzip our content
before we send it over the wire.
Save the JSON file and then you're
going to want to stop the process and
run NPM start again to
pick up the changes.
So we've completed some server upgrades or
simulated server upgrades.
If we refresh our Request Metrics page,
we should see a much faster
response to our service.
If we go into our DevTools and look at,
say, the network of these requests,
we can see that all of our requests
are coming in at around 50 to 60
milliseconds, representing
that speed increase.
And if we click on one of these,
we can see that the content that
we are getting back from
our server is now Gzipped.
So what does this mean?
What is the actual impact of this?
Well, to see the improvement,
let's go back to Lighthouse.
And if we did it from before,
this was our initial snapshot, right?
We hadn't done anything to our servers.
And here we are at Lighthouse scores.
Let's go ahead and run it again now
that we've made these upgrades.
And we're just gonna click the little
plus sign in the upper left, and
generate a new report with
the exact same settings.
Huge improvement, right?
I went from in the seventies
to in the nineties, and
my First Contentful Paint went way up or
improved considerably.
It's now at 0.6 seconds, and
Largest Contentful Paint is
only a little bit behind it.
So simply adding this made a huge
impact in the performance of the site.
Now, unfortunately,
it doesn't help everything.
It's still the same site with the same
choices with the same order of operations.
And so
there's other metrics that are still slow.
It's still slow till we
are actually done with the page.
It's still shifting around a lot.
It's still doing some things we don't
want, but we made a big impact.
You can see this impact reflected
in your field data as well.
If we refresh the page a few times, The
perf.log.csv is gonna continue to update.
If you paste that across into our
dashboard, you should see a significant
decrease in both the first contentful
paint and the largest contentful paint.